Update VSO docs for v0.3.0 (#23281)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/platform/k8s/vso/sources/hvs.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault Secrets Operator with HCP Vault Secrets
description: >-
  The Vault Secrets Operator allows Pods to consume HCP Vault Secrets natively from Kubernetes Secrets.
---

# HCP Vault Secrets source

## Overview

The Vault Secrets Operator (VSO) is able to sync a [HCP Vault Secrets App](/hcp/docs/vault-secrets) (HVSA) to
a Kubernetes Secret. Each `HCPVaultSecretsApp` custom resource will be periodically synced, ensuring

> that any changes to the secret source are reflected in the Kubernetes secret.

Author: Fixed in a5e2dda969a9a1fff191815b35c7dff32bb0ddb9

## Features

- Periodic synchronization of HCP Vault Secrets App to a *destination* Kubernetes Secret.
- Automatic drift detection and remediation in the case where the destination Kubernetes Secret
  is modified or deleted.
- Support for all VSO features, including performing a *rollout-restart* upon secret rotation or
  during drift remediation.
- Authentication to HCP using [HCP service principals](/hcp/docs/hcp/admin/iam/service-principals).

### Supported HCP authentication methods

| Backend                                                              | Description                                            |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| [HCP Service Principals](/hcp/docs/hcp/admin/iam/service-principals) | Relies on static credentials for authenticating to HCP |

### HCP Vault Secrets sync example

> The following Kubernetes configuration can be used to sync the HCP Vault Secrets app, `vso-example`,
> to the Kubernetes Secret, `vso-app-secret`, in the `vso-example-ns` Kubernetes Namespace. It assumes that
> you have already setup [service principal Kubernetes secret](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/api-reference#hcpauthserviceprincipal),
> and have created the HCP Vault Secrets app.
> 
> *see the [installation](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/installation) docs before applying any of example CRs below.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following Kubernetes configuration to sync your HCP Vault
Secrets app, `vso-example`, to the Kubernetes Secret, `vso-app-secret`,
in the `vso-example-ns` Kubernetes namespace. The example 
configuration assumes you already have have already an HCP Vault
Secrets appset and have your
[service principal Kubernetes secret](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/api-reference#hcpauthserviceprincipal) configured.

Refer to the [Kubernetes VSO installation guide](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/installation) before applying any of the example configurations below.
```

```yaml
---
apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: HCPAuth
metadata:
  name: hcp-auth
  namespace: vso-example-ns
spec:
  organizationID: xxxxxxxx-76e9-4e17-b5e9-xxxxxxxx4c33
  projectID: xxxxxxxx-bd16-443f-a266-xxxxxxxxcb52
  servicePrincipal:
    secretRef: vso-app-sp
---
apiVersion: secrets.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: HCPVaultSecretsApp
metadata:
  name: vso-app
  namespace: vso-example-ns
spec:
  appName: vso-app
  hcpAuthRef: hcp-auth
  destination:
    create: true
    name: vso-app-secret
```

@include 'vso/blurb-api-reference.mdx'

> ## Tutorial
> 
> Stay tuned...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
